in this video I'm going to break down
the AI news that I think is interesting
that you might have missed this week so
let's get into
[Music]
it there's actually been a ton of news
in the world of AI image generation this
week There's Been news around flux and
news around mid journey and news around
idiogram and free picks Mystic and so
much has been happening in the world of
AI art generation that I actually made a
whole dedicated video just to talk about
what's been going on in the world of AI
art you can find it with this video here
called mid journey is free again and
here's why that video is not just about
mid Journey it kind of breaks down the
entire AI art landscape and what's going
on there right now however I will give
you a quick recap in this video starting
with the fact that mid Journey opened up
their free trial again back when mid
Journey first came out and it was only
available inside of Discord they had a
free trial however unfortunately a
handful of people figured out how to
game this system and a lot of people
were figuring out how to get multiple
free trial and just keep on using mid
Journey for free so they eliminated the
free trial and this week they brought
that free trial back and if you want to
get good at using mid Journey now that
you can play around with it for free if
you want I actually have a full playlist
on Mid Journey here with a ton of tips
and tutorials on how to get the absolute
best out of mid Journey so check that
out if you're finally ready to try mid
Journey because now it's free now there
is a caveat to it you only get 25 images
that's not 25 images a month that's 2
Generations once you've used mid Journey
25 times done 25 images they'll kick you
out and make you pay for it but mid
journey is still one of the best AI
image generation platforms I'm always
still impressed with the types of images
that I get out of mid Journey so if
you're somebody that's never played with
it before I highly recommend diving in
now now I doubt the timing of mid
Journey offering their free trial is
coincidence because this week idiogram
rolled out a new model idog is a really
good AI art generation model in fact
it's most well known for the fact that
it was pretty much the first AI
generation model that was really really
good at generating text inside of the
model well this week they announced
idiogram 2.0 and they also announced
that it is now available to all users
for free so a model on par with mid
Journey comes out offers users the
ability to use it for free and on the
exact same day mid journey goes and says
yeah but we got free trials now so is
that a coincidence maybe now idiogram is
really pretty dang good especially when
you're trying to get text inside of the
images it's pretty decent at realism as
well it's hard to find images that it
won't actually do now they do say it is
free for all however if I look at the
subscription page here this is the
reality you get 10 credits per day now
one credit generates four Images so for
the most part you get 40 images per day
mid Journey you get 25 images and then
your trials up IDR you can generate with
10 prompts or 40 images per day once
your credits are up you either have to
upgrade or just wait till tomorrow now
with all of this AI image generation
craziness happening we've seen a lot of
sort of unhinged AI images especially
coming out of flux on grock 2 and well
AI is getting political Donald Trump
himself posted over on the truth social
platform these images that sort of imply
that Taylor Swift and Taylor Swift's
fans are endorsing Donald Trump but of
course these are AI generated images
here's another image that Donald Trump
himself posted over on X of KLA Harris
in front of a crowd with a communist
flag out in front so yeah the political
landscape is getting really weird with
all these AI image Generations something
that I think pretty much anybody that's
been paying attention to AI image
generation probably saw coming now on
the flip side of the AI image generation
craze the CEO of procreate came out this
week to say he's anti- generative Ai and
that generative AI will never be a part
of procreate here's his little 40c
message you've been asking us about AI
you know I usually don't like getting in
front of the camera I prefer that our
products speak for themselves I really
 hate journey of AI I don't like
what's happening in the industry and I
don't like what it's doing to artists
we're not going to be introducing any
generative AI into our products our
products are always designed and
developed with the idea that a human
will be creating something you know we
don't exactly know where this story is
going to go or How It Ends but we
believe that we're on the right path
supporting human
MKBHD actually retweeted this message
from the CEO of procreate saying
bookmark this such a fascinating
announcement artists and users on social
media celebrate take notes Adobe but
then he goes on to say but Tech Al this
is committing to never offering any of
the features in their products no matter
how good or useful they may get in the
future an announcement to not add
features I wonder if they ever bend on
this rule someday and that's kind of the
take that I agree with I mean I sort of
commend James here from procreate for
taking a stand and while every app in
the world is basically saying look we've
got AI in it now they're saying we're
never going to do that but also never is
a long time but at the end of the today
procreate is just one tool and if you
want to generate AI art just don't use
procreate simple as that moving along to
what's been happening in the world of AI
video generation Luma Labs released
dream machine 1.5 now it's got higher
quality text to video smarter
understanding of your prompts custom
text rendering and improved image to
video I jumped into my Luma Labs account
to test a few Generations here this was
actually one of the recommended ideas
here that I just had it generate an
extreme close-up footage of a young
sailor woman with a concerned expression
during a rainstorm and this is what it
gave me for that looks pretty good I
mean it's very cartoony sort of Pixar is
looking but I think it's a pretty decent
video but they mentioned that it's
better at rendering text now and so I
was curious about that so I used one of
the prompts that I was playing with when
I was testing all the AI image
generators and I asked it to do a
mystical Forest Clearing where wisps of
fog spell out the words magic awaits in
flowing ethereal lettering between
ancient trees my first attempt it said
say magic wet so I went huh that's weird
maybe I'll try again the second time I
tried it it went and wrote magic vs it
got magic perfect both times but it
struggled with the word awaits either
way I actually think that Luma Labs
makes some pretty decent videos I'm
happy with most of the stuff that it's
generated for me so far but I kind of
have to disagree that it's great at text
yet maybe it's better if it's just like
one word or something but just trying to
get it to say magic awaits on two rolls
I could not get it to work but again
still makes some pretty decent videos we
also got another AI video tool roll out
this week in a tool called hot shot and
the creators of this tool basically
compare it to Sora because their press
release is titled how a four-person team
built Sora and admittedly most of the
generations that they show on their
homepage are really freaking good like
this girl popping out of the water these
corgis here this girl sending a text
message this girl among like these wheat
feeld felds these videos look really
really good unfortunately they're
cherry-picked as hell now this tool lets
you generate two videos for free every
day so if you generate two videos and
you don't get one that you like you have
two options you can either wait till
tomorrow and try two videos again or you
can pay them a hundred bucks a month to
be able to generate more videos me being
a huge sucker I upgraded I paid the
hundred bucks because I wanted to test
more generations to see how well it does
when I try my own prompts so let's click
over to mine and see what I got and well
you'll see pretty quickly that nothing
that I did looks nearly as good as the
prompts they show on their homepage this
is supposed to be a monkey on roller
skates down here this is like a
chameleon changing colors with the
background this was a sand castle that
was supposed to collapse when the waves
hit it but it doesn't collapse these are
sparks that are supposed to turn into
constellations this is a paper airplane
flying through different
yeah nothing that I generated came out
anywhere near as good as what they were
showing on the homepage so quite
honestly I think there's quite a bit of
work to do I've been much more impressed
still with what we're getting out of
lum's dream machine and Runway gen 3
than what I'm getting out of hot shot
and quite honestly this is the most
expensive of the options too so
hopefully it gets better soon if you
want to see a full detailed breakdown of
all of my tests using Hot Shot I
actually did a video called new AI video
tool claims to be as good as Sora and
this one I do a much deeper dive into
how I came up with the prompts why I use
these different prompts and the outputs
that I got so check that out if you want
to dive a little bit deeper on what Hot
Shot is capable of and my experiments
with it in more AI video news LTX Studio
rolled out publicly this week so now
anybody can use it and it's got some
pretty cool features in it the coolest
feature in my opinion is the ability to
do this motion tracking so you can
upload a video of yourself giving
certain facial expressions and those
facial expressions will translate to the
characters inside your video to me
that's pretty dang cool you can also do
things like Scribble a scene to inform
the platform what you want your videos
to look like give it a text prompt to go
along with it and it will generate that
scene based on your scribbles and
there's much more features like key
frame controls enhanced collaboration
stuff like that so it looks pretty cool
also this week a did laed an AI video
translation tool that includes voice
cloning and lip sync so if you're
familiar with tools like hey Jen this
can now do what that tool does here's a
quick
example with video translate a feature
of our studio that automatically
transforms your videos into seamless
spoken translation and since we're
talking about AI audio right now it's
worth mentioning that 11 Labs text to
speech app called reader is now
available globally we've had it in the
US here for probably a month or so but
it's a cool tool where you can open up
articles or PDFs or things like that and
have them read to you in pretty much any
voice you want including your own voice
all right let's move on to large
language Model news and let's start with
perplexity this week because perplexity
is like my main go-to when I need any
sort of information from the web now I
go to perplexity over Google search 99%
of the time now and perplex is starting
to roll out some new features like chat
gpt's code interpreter we can see Phil
here says wow perplexity code
interpreter can now install libraries
and display charts in the result this
enables many more use cases compared to
chat GPT code interpreter like creating
stock market charts using Y finance and
then there's some screenshots here
install a library to get the stock
market returns of the day index over the
past 20 years then use it to make a
chart and perplexity actually goes and
runs the code here and then generat the
chart for them so this is a really
really solid add-on to perplexity which
is probably going to make it more and
more people's go to tool to do research
now everybody doesn't have this feature
yet Arend the CEO of perplexity says
code interpreter and plot rendering are
slowly being rolled out now in less
exciting perplexity news but probably
good for perplexity not as good for
users perplexity AI is planning to start
running ads in fourth quarter as AI
assisted search gains popularity so it
looks looks like perplexity is going to
kind of go in that Google model and
start running advertising right inside
of perplexity when you ask questions
apparently they're circulating a pitch
deck right now that is promoting the
app's reach and increasing usage and
down here it says with advertising
perplexity will follow a model called
CPM or cost per thousand Impressions
perplexity said in its pitch deck that
its Key Advertising categories initially
would include topics such as technology
health and pharmaceuticals arts and
entertainment Finance plus food and
beverage ad iers will be able to sponsor
related questions below answers and buy
display ads to the right of a perplexity
generated answer now I'm not certain
from this article here on CNBC whether
or not pro users are still going to have
ads because if you've used perplexity
you know there's a free version and a
pro version the pro version you actually
have to pay to get access to I'm
assuming the ads are only going to be in
the free version and not the pro version
but we still have to wait and see
because that's not specifically laid out
in this article here now if you're
somebody that uses AI at work or you're
thinking about using AI at work you're
going to want to grab hubspot's
completely free bundle called five
essential resources for using chat GPT
at work and honestly if you're not
thinking about using AI in the workplace
just remember what F Fe Lee says here AI
won't replace humans but humans using AI
will so if you're not using AI to speed
up and improve the quality of your work
well your competitors probably are the
link to this completely free resource is
down in the description right now and
trust me this is something you're going
to want to look through it includes
interesting flowcharts on when you
should or shouldn't use chat GPT there's
also a really cool template in there
that you can use with chat GPT to make
sure that any content it creates for you
follows your Brand's voice you've got an
AI generated content refinement
checklist to double check ai's work and
ensure that you're putting something out
into the world that you really want to
be putting out there there's a four page
checklist that you can easily follow all
about adopting AI in the workplace and a
super comprehensive p PDF guide on how
to supercharge your day with chat GPT
and what's really cool about this is if
you scroll all the way down to the
bottom of this document they have 100
ways to try chat GPT today it's got some
pretty cool prompts to test out in it
too like providing recommendations for
improving customer service and support
providing recommendations for improving
website SEO helping with email
management and organization and so much
more again it's super comprehensive
super helpful and once again the link to
this 100% free resource from HubSpot is
down in the description below and thank
you so much to HubSpot for sponsoring
this video anthropics in the news this
week but not for the best reasons
they're getting sued just like open AI
just like pretty much every company
making large language models in fact I'm
probably going to stop talking about law
suits in these videos because pretty
much all of these large language models
are getting sued these days and I'll
probably only start talking about
lawsuits that are like concluded and
there's actually something that comes
from it but once again a bunch of
authors are suing because their Works
were scraped to get the data for
anthropics platform there's a giant data
set called the pile and the pile is this
large scraping of information from all
over the web that a lot of these large
language model companies use as their
sort of initial data set to kick off the
training of their large language models
and it sounds like authors are kind of
starting to go after any company that
trained data on the pile because the
pile also included books from authors
and paywalled content and things like
that Microsoft released a new model this
week called f 3.5 this new model has
3.82 billion parameters it is a smaller
model that seems to be designed to run
on mobile devices and things like that
and when compared to other similar sized
smaller models like GPT 40 mini Gemini
1.5 flash Gemma 29b llama 3.1 8B mistal
Nemo etc etc etc it pretty much
performed better or on par in all of the
various benchmarks that was tested on
moving over to open AI this week they
rolled out the ability to fine-tune GPT
40 so you can sort of custom train your
own information into the model now quite
honestly for most people and most
companies fine-tuning is probably
Overkill it's probably not necessary for
you to do you can use something like
retrieval augmented generation or rag
and just share documents and let your
llm have access to those documents to
retrieve whatever sort of custom
information you want but if you do want
to find tuna model in GPT 40 you can now
do that they're offering 1 million
training tokens per day for free for
every organization through September
23rd it's pretty cool that open AI is
doing that and allowing companies to do
that but again it's probably overkill
for like 90% of companies also this week
open AI partnered with cond Nast I think
I said that right they own Brands like
Vogue the New Yorker condas traveler GQ
architectural digest Vanity Fair wired
bone appeti and more and now content
from those brands are going to be
accessible inside of open aai and chat
GPT and of course the new search GPT
which I personally still don't have
access to because they seem to have cut
it off after a certain amount of users
and said no more until later and if
you're keeping score open AI has now
partnered with K Nast Associated Press
Axel Springer the Atlantic do- Meredith
Financial Times lemond News Corp prism
media time Fox Media and others so it
seems like maybe they're trying to avoid
all these lawsuits Going The Distance by
just going and partnering with these
companies and either paying them or
giving them access to their Tech in
exchange for being allowed to use their
data that's what it seems like is
happening here and since we're talking
about open AI open AI finally spoke up
about the Senate Bill 1047 I did do a
podcast episode on the next wave with
Anan from a16z where we talked about
this Senate bill and why AI companies
are so opposed to it essentially the
bill wants to hold the companies that
make the large language models
responsible for any harm done using the
large language models so if somebody
goes and uses an llm like meta's llama
llm and uses it to create a bomb or
something like that not only will the
person who used the llm to create the
bomb be held responsible for their
actions but meta who created the llm
will also be held responsible and that's
a very oversimplified EXP explanation of
why all of these AI companies are so
opposed to this new bill they're worried
that it will stifle Innovation because
how are they supposed to know what these
models might eventually be used for and
how are they supposed to continue to
make the models more and more advanced
if they're worried that these more
advanced models might be used by Bad
actors to do bad actor stuff and the
information who also reported on this
same exact thing here did a quick
breakdown that I thought was interesting
of the friends and foes of Cali AI
safety bill so TechNet is against the
bill Mozilla is against the bill a16z is
against the bill Google's against the
bill hugging fa is against the bill meta
is against the bill Y combinator is
against the bill they have open AI as
sort of neutral but now open AI is
coming out as against the bill and then
anthropic and Microsoft they're putting
as neutral but anthropic basically said
that they would support the bill if
there was some amendments made some
amendments were made but then anthropic
hasn't really made another statement
about it since and then Microsoft has
not taken a position at all about the
bill and then the proponents of the bill
are the center for human compatible Ai
and notion for some reason which seems
kind of odd because notion uses
anthropic open Ai and other llms a super
quick edit here um in the middle of
editing this video and it just came out
today that anthropic actually did take a
stance on this bill they said that
anthropic now says that the benefits
outweigh the cost for the California a
bill so basically anthropic is now
saying they think that this bill isn't
so bad they didn't say they endorsed the
bill but they said that they think the
benefits of this bill are going to
outweigh the costs just wanted to make
this little addon real quick and splice
it in because new information came out
about that specific topic if you
remember from back several months ago
during Microsoft's build event they
announced their recall AI feature which
was a feature that was like your search
history in your browser but for your
whole computer it just kind of remembers
everything you did on your computer so
you can go back and remember anything
whether it was on the internet in your
browser or not well a lot of people were
really worried about the security
implications of this Microsoft sort of
shelved it for a little bit and now it
looks like we're going to be getting
this in October finally I actually had
the opportunity to play around with this
feature while I was at the Microsoft
build event I thought it was pretty cool
but I also saw why it could be worrisome
I do understand that it didn't blur out
passwords or anything like that so if
you type a password on a screen that was
saved in your history and if somebody
got access to your computer they can go
back look through your history and see
you typing in passwords and things like
that so there was definitely some issues
so it's a good thing they went back to
the drawing board with it but personally
I'm kind of excited for this feature I
thought it was really cool Google made
an update this week to Gmail with AI
adding a Polish option where you can
type an email hit a button to polish it
and it will sort of rewrite that email
for for you in a new polished fashion
they also added the ability to refine my
draft so you can see they wrote up a
draft here and they're given the option
to refine the draft and then they have
options for formalize Polish all that
sort of thing and then moving on to
robotics we've got some fun cool
robotics news this week the unry
robotics that we can see here on the
screen they're rolling out their G1 mass
production version we can see in the
video what it can do it can like walk up
and downstairs it can jump it can do all
sorts of cool stuff and once it's
available it's going to go for $6 $1,000
now I know that's a lot of money but
quite honestly that's a lot less
expensive than I would have thought
something like that would be at this
current stage of where we're at now
according to this article on the verge
unry hasn't revealed exactly when the
production ready version of the G1 will
actually be available but when it is
potential customers shouldn't expect it
to stroll into the kitchen and cook
breakfast right out of the box the robot
is designed to learn through imitation
using the company's unry robot unified
large language model and its initial
appeal will be as an afford able
humanoid platform for conducting
robotics research not as a real life
version of Rosie the robot from the
Jetson and we got more robots this week
too this one is called AGI bot and once
again it is another humanoid robot to me
it kind of looks more like goat legs or
something but it looks like he's trying
to challenge Elon Musk and their Optimus
robot now we don't have any videos of
this robot yet but we do have just the
images that we've seen on screen I'll
probably talk more about this as more
comes out from this company this week
Best Buy introduced an AI power delivery
tracking basically people are impatient
and when they order something from Best
Buy they want to know exactly where it
is at the exact moment and it sounds
like Best Buy is using AI to accomplish
that Best Buy is rolling out an AI power
delivery tracking system that promises
minute-by-minute updates the company
aims to satisfy customers who are
increasingly frustrated with vague
delivery windows and limited order
visibility and here's something I think
everybody can get behind AI technology
can help you win the battle over
mosquitoes there's this little device
called the bazo iris I don't know if I'm
pronouncing that right or not but it's a
smart mosquito detector it weighs less
than a pound and it uses AI vision and
algorithms to detect track and Target
mosquitoes and it even works in complete
darkness and when it spots a mosquito
the iris doesn't just sit there it
tracks the insect until it lands and
then uses a safe laser pointer to Mark
the Spot it then sends an alert to your
smartphone which is compatible with both
iPhone and Androids so you know exactly
where to aim your swatter so it doesn't
actually like blast it out for you
that's probably like V2 V1 just points
it out with a laser and then you can run
up and slap it but I want one I'm one of
those people that is like a mosquito
magnet so whenever there's mosquitoes
around nobody else gets bit because they
all come to me so I kind of need this in
my life and then finally a16z released
their top 100 gen AI consumer apps this
week which breaks down the top 50 gen
web products and the top 50 gen mobile
app apps taking a peek at the web
products no surprises here chat GPT is
number one character AI is number two
and perplexity is number three followed
by Claude and sunno I'm actually kind of
shocked that sunno is this high up but
good for them it's a cool fun product
that I know more and more people are
catching on to funny thing is janitor AI
number six I've never even heard of that
one I'm going to need to look into that
and figure out what it is I'm excited to
see Leonardo here at number 17 and a lot
of familiar apps on this top 50 list and
then under top 50 gen mobile apps once
again no surprise chat GPT is number one
Microsoft Edge is number two that one's
a little surprising to me I think most
surprising to me is to see perplexity
all the way down here at number 50 for
me that's probably my top most used AI
app on my phone and the fact that it's
all the way down here at number 50 this
one deserves to be a lot higher I think
this one should be up in the top 10 cuz
it's a really useful app anyway that's
just my personal opinion on it I love
seeing reports like this and seeing
where tools are ranking so that's what I
got for you this week lots of lots of AI
art news in the world of image
generation and video generation more
lawsuits more regulation that the AI
companies are against and some cool
robots that we can look forward to in
the future the next several weeks are
going to be fairly crazy for me I'm
going to be at vidsummit the first week
in September HubSpot inbound the third
week of September meta connect the
fourth week in September so the videos
might slow down a little bit on this
Chann Channel I'm going to still try to
get the AI News videos out once a week
to Loop you in on the latest AI news
like this one but unless some really
cool insane things happen that I just
feel I have to share with you there may
be a few less videos over the next you
know four to five weeks but again when
something major happens I'm definitely
going to take the time step away from
whatever I'm doing to make a video for
you and keep you in the loop so if you
want to stay looped in on all the latest
AI News latest AI tools fun AI tutorials
that you can do yourself make sure
you're subscribed to this channel like
this video it will ensure that more of
these videos show up in your YouTube
feed it also makes me feel good and
helps my channel out so I really
appreciate it and if you haven't already
check out future tools. where I curate
all of the coolest AI tools I have a
newsletter I keep the AI news page up to
dat on a daily basis lots of good stuff
there if you're into AI like I am it's
all free at Future tools. and once again
thank you so much for hanging out with
me nerding out with me I record these
videos on Thursday so if any big news
came out late Thursday evening or on
Friday it'll probably be in next week's
video but I love that you just come and
hang out with me once a week and we can
talk about fun AI news I really really
appreciate you thanks again to HubSpot
for sponsoring this video I'll hopefully
see you in the next one bye-bye